README.md, before:

# Claude Usage Menubar App

> 🤖 Built by Claude, for Claude

A simple macOS menubar application that displays your Claude API usage limits in real-time.

## Features

- **Smart Usage Indicators**: Shows usage percentage with intelligent icons that compare your actual usage to expected usage based on time elapsed:
  - ✅ On track or under expected usage
  - ⚠️ Slightly over pace (within 10% of expected)
  - 🚨 Significantly over pace (more than 10% over expected)
- **Multiple Metrics**: Switch between different usage limits in the dropdown menu:
  - 5-hour Limit
  - 7-day Limit (All Models)
  - 7-day Limit (Sonnet)
- **Relative Time Display**: Shows "Resets in 4h 23m" instead of absolute timestamps
- **Settings Window**: Configure your Claude session key and choose which metric to display in the menubar
- **Auto-refresh**: Updates every 5 minutes
- **Persistent Settings**: Session key and preferences saved securely in macOS UserDefaults

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Download Pre-built App (Recommended)

1. Download the latest release from the [Releases](../../releases) page
2. Download `ClaudeUsage.dmg`
3. Open the DMG and drag `ClaudeUsage.app` to your Applications folder
4. Launch from Applications
5. Click the menubar icon and select "Settings..."
6. Enter your Claude session key (see below)

### Option 2: Build from Source

```bash
# Make scripts executable and build
chmod +x build.sh run.sh create-dmg.sh generate-icon.sh
./build.sh

# Launch the app
open build/ClaudeUsage.app

# Configure settings
# 1. Click the menubar icon
# 2. Select "Settings..."
# 3. Enter your Claude session key
# 4. Choose which metric to display in the menubar
# 5. Click "Save"
```

## Getting Your Session Key

1. Open [claude.ai](https://claude.ai) in your browser
2. Open Developer Tools (Cmd+Option+I or F12)
3. Go to **Application** > **Cookies** > `https://claude.ai`
4. Find and copy the value of the `sessionKey` cookie
5. Paste it into the Settings window

## Usage

**Menubar Icon**: Shows your selected metric's usage with a smart indicator:
- Example: "✅ 19%" (on track) or "🚨 67%" (over pace)
- The icon compares your actual usage to the expected usage for how much time has passed

**Dropdown Menu**:
- Lists all available metrics with usage percentages and reset times
- Click any metric to switch to displaying it in the menubar
- The currently displayed metric shows a checkmark
- Access Settings, Refresh data manually, or Quit the app

**Keyboard Shortcuts**:
- `Cmd+,` - Open Settings
- `Cmd+R` - Refresh data
- `Cmd+Q` - Quit app

## How Smart Usage Indicators Work

The app doesn't just show your raw usage percentage. It's smarter than that:

**Example**: If you're 3 hours into a 5-hour limit:
- Expected usage: ~60% (3/5 hours elapsed)
- If you're at 45% actual usage: ✅ (under pace, you're good!)
- If you're at 65% actual usage: ⚠️ (slightly over, watch it)
- If you're at 80% actual usage: 🚨 (way over pace, slow down!)

This helps you understand not just "how much have I used" but "am I on track for the rest of this period?"

## Settings Storage

Settings are stored in macOS UserDefaults:
- Session key: Stored securely in your user preferences
- Selected metric: Persists between app launches
- Falls back to `CLAUDE_SESSION_KEY` environment variable if not set in Settings

## Requirements

- macOS 13.0 or later
- Xcode Command Line Tools (for building from source)

## Building from Source

```bash
# Build
./build.sh

# Run
open build/ClaudeUsage.app

# Or use the run script (checks for environment variable fallback)
./run.sh
```

## Creating a DMG for Distribution

```bash
# Build the app first
./build.sh

# Create DMG
./create-dmg.sh
```

The DMG will be created at `build/ClaudeUsage.dmg`.

## Manual Build

```bash
swiftc ClaudeUsageApp.swift \
  -o build/ClaudeUsage.app/Contents/MacOS/ClaudeUsage \
  -framework Cocoa \
  -framework SwiftUI \
  -parse-as-library
```

## Creating a Release

To publish a new release to GitHub:

1. Commit your changes and push to main
2. Create and push a version tag:
   ```bash
   git tag v1.0.0
   git push origin v1.0.0
   ```
3. GitHub Actions will automatically:
   - Build the app
   - Create a DMG file
   - Publish a new release with the DMG attached

You can also trigger the release workflow manually from the Actions tab on GitHub.

## Troubleshooting

**App shows ❌ icon**:
- Session key not configured or invalid
- Open Settings and enter a valid session key

**No data shown**:
- Check network connectivity
- Verify session key is current (they expire periodically)
- Check Console.app for error messages

**Settings not saving**:
- Make sure you click the "Save" button
- Check file permissions for ~/Library/Preferences/

## Privacy

- Session key is stored locally in macOS UserDefaults
- No data is sent anywhere except to claude.ai API
- App only requests usage data from your Claude organization

Commit message:

Update CI workflow and README for automated builds
The release workflow now triggers on every commit to the main branch and uploads DMG artifacts for non-tagged commits, while official releases are created only for version tags. The README has been updated to document the new continuous integration process and clarify the steps for creating releases and accessing build artifacts.

README.md, after:

# Claude Usage Menubar App

> 🤖 Built by Claude, for Claude

A simple macOS menubar application that displays your Claude API usage limits in real-time.

## Features

- **Smart Usage Indicators**: Shows usage percentage with intelligent icons that compare your actual usage to expected usage based on time elapsed:
  - ✅ On track or under expected usage
  - ⚠️ Slightly over pace (within 10% of expected)
  - 🚨 Significantly over pace (more than 10% over expected)
- **Multiple Metrics**: Switch between different usage limits in the dropdown menu:
  - 5-hour Limit
  - 7-day Limit (All Models)
  - 7-day Limit (Sonnet)
- **Relative Time Display**: Shows "Resets in 4h 23m" instead of absolute timestamps
- **Settings Window**: Configure your Claude session key and choose which metric to display in the menubar
- **Auto-refresh**: Updates every 5 minutes
- **Persistent Settings**: Session key and preferences saved securely in macOS UserDefaults

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Download Pre-built App (Recommended)

1. Download the latest release from the [Releases](../../releases) page
2. Download `ClaudeUsage.dmg`
3. Open the DMG and drag `ClaudeUsage.app` to your Applications folder
4. Launch from Applications
5. Click the menubar icon and select "Settings..."
6. Enter your Claude session key (see below)

### Option 2: Build from Source

```bash
# Make scripts executable and build
chmod +x build.sh run.sh create-dmg.sh generate-icon.sh
./build.sh

# Launch the app
open build/ClaudeUsage.app

# Configure settings
# 1. Click the menubar icon
# 2. Select "Settings..."
# 3. Enter your Claude session key
# 4. Choose which metric to display in the menubar
# 5. Click "Save"
```

## Getting Your Session Key

1. Open [claude.ai](https://claude.ai) in your browser
2. Open Developer Tools (Cmd+Option+I or F12)
3. Go to **Application** > **Cookies** > `https://claude.ai`
4. Find and copy the value of the `sessionKey` cookie
5. Paste it into the Settings window

## Usage

**Menubar Icon**: Shows your selected metric's usage with a smart indicator:
- Example: "✅ 19%" (on track) or "🚨 67%" (over pace)
- The icon compares your actual usage to the expected usage for how much time has passed

**Dropdown Menu**:
- Lists all available metrics with usage percentages and reset times
- Click any metric to switch to displaying it in the menubar
- The currently displayed metric shows a checkmark
- Access Settings, Refresh data manually, or Quit the app

**Keyboard Shortcuts**:
- `Cmd+,` - Open Settings
- `Cmd+R` - Refresh data
- `Cmd+Q` - Quit app

## How Smart Usage Indicators Work

The app doesn't just show your raw usage percentage. It's smarter than that:

**Example**: If you're 3 hours into a 5-hour limit:
- Expected usage: ~60% (3/5 hours elapsed)
- If you're at 45% actual usage: ✅ (under pace, you're good!)
- If you're at 65% actual usage: ⚠️ (slightly over, watch it)
- If you're at 80% actual usage: 🚨 (way over pace, slow down!)

This helps you understand not just "how much have I used" but "am I on track for the rest of this period?"

## Settings Storage

Settings are stored in macOS UserDefaults:
- Session key: Stored securely in your user preferences
- Selected metric: Persists between app launches
- Falls back to `CLAUDE_SESSION_KEY` environment variable if not set in Settings

## Requirements

- macOS 13.0 or later
- Xcode Command Line Tools (for building from source)

## Building from Source

```bash
# Build
./build.sh

# Run
open build/ClaudeUsage.app

# Or use the run script (checks for environment variable fallback)
./run.sh
```

## Creating a DMG for Distribution

```bash
# Build the app first
./build.sh

# Create DMG
./create-dmg.sh
```

The DMG will be created at `build/ClaudeUsage.dmg`.

## Manual Build

```bash
swiftc ClaudeUsageApp.swift \
  -o build/ClaudeUsage.app/Contents/MacOS/ClaudeUsage \
  -framework Cocoa \
  -framework SwiftUI \
  -parse-as-library
```

## Automated Builds

### Continuous Integration

Every commit to the `main` branch automatically:
- Builds the app
- Creates a DMG file
- Uploads it as a workflow artifact (available for 30 days)

Download the artifact from: **Actions tab → Click the workflow run → Artifacts section**

### Creating a Release

To publish an official release to GitHub:

1. Commit your changes and push to main:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your changes"
   git push origin main
   ```

2. Create and push a version tag:
   ```bash
   git tag v1.0.0
   git push origin v1.0.0
   ```

3. GitHub Actions will automatically:
   - Build the app
   - Create a DMG file
   - Publish a new GitHub Release with the DMG attached

You can also trigger builds manually from the **Actions** tab → **Build and Release** → **Run workflow**

## Troubleshooting

**App shows ❌ icon**:
- Session key not configured or invalid
- Open Settings and enter a valid session key

**No data shown**:
- Check network connectivity
- Verify session key is current (they expire periodically)
- Check Console.app for error messages

**Settings not saving**:
- Make sure you click the "Save" button
- Check file permissions for ~/Library/Preferences/

## Privacy

- Session key is stored locally in macOS UserDefaults
- No data is sent anywhere except to claude.ai API
- App only requests usage data from your Claude organization
